As  I  was  saying,  the  mother  of  this  hobbit  -  of  Bilbo 
Baggins, that is  - was  the fabulous Belladonna Took, one of  the  three remarkable 
daughters  of  the  Old  Took,  head  of  the  hobbits  who  lived  across  The Water,  the 
small river that ran at the foot of The Hill. It was often said (in other families) that 
long  ago  one  of  the  Took  ancestors  must  have  taken  a  fairy  wife.  That  was,  of 
course,  absurd,  but  certainly  there  was  still  something  not  entirely  hobbit-like 
about  them,  -  and  once  in  a while members  of  the  Took-clan would go and have 
adventures. They discreetly disappeared, and  the  family hushed  it up; but  the  fact 
remained  that  the  Tooks  were  not  as  respectable  as  the  Bagginses,  though  they 
were undoubtedly richer. Not that Belladonna Took ever had any adventures after 
she  became  Mrs.  Bungo  Baggins.  Bungo,  that  was  Bilbo's  father,  built  the  most 
luxurious  hobbit-hole  for  her  (and  partly  with  her  money)  that  was  to  be  found 
either  under  The  Hill  or  over  The  Hill  or  across  The  Water,  and  there  they 
remained  to  the  end  of  their  days.  Still  it  is  probable  that  Bilbo,  her  only  son, 
although  he  looked  and  behaved  exactly  like  a  second  edition  of  his  solid  and 
comfortable  father,  got  something  a  bit  queer  in  his makeup  from  the Took  side, 
something  that  only  waited  for  a  chance  to  come  out.  The  chance  never  arrived, 
until Bilbo Baggins was grown up, being about fifty years old or so, and living in 
the  beautiful  hobbit-hole  built  by  his  father,  which  I  have  just described  for you, 
until he had in fact apparently settled down immovably.  
By some curious chance one morning long ago in the quiet of the world, when 
there  was  less  noise  and  more  green,  and  the  hobbits  were  still  numerous  and 
prosperous,  and  Bilbo  Baggins  was  standing  at  his  door  after  breakfast  smoking 
an  enormous  long  wooden  pipe  that  reached  nearly  down  to  his  woolly  toes 
(neatly brushed)  - Gandalf  came  by. Gandalf!  If  you  had  heard  only  a  quarter  of 
what  I  have  heard  about  him,  and  I  have  only  heard  very  little  of  all  there  is  to 
hear,  you  would  be  prepared  for  any  sort  I  of  remarkable  tale.  Tales  and 
adventures  sprouted  up  all  over  the  place  wherever  he  went,  in  the  most 
extraordinary  fashion.  He  had  not  been  down  that  way  under  The  Hill  for  ages 
and  ages,  not  since  his  friend  the  Old  Took  died,  in  fact,  and  the  hobbits  had 
almost forgotten what he looked like. He had been away over The Hill and across 
The  Water  on  business  of  his  own  since  they  were  all  small  hobbit-boys  and 
hobbit-girls.